Day 1-2: Research and Planning

Research existing simulation libraries and tools:
Study the documentation and examples of popular simulation libraries such as Matplotlib, Plotly, and Three.js.
Evaluate the pros and cons of each library for the CNFR33D simulation module.
Plan the simulation module's architecture and design:
Define the overall architecture of the simulation module.
Identify the key components and their interactions.
Create a high-level design document outlining the simulation module's structure and functionality.
Define the simulation's input and output parameters:
Identify the input parameters required for the simulation (e.g., tool diameter, feed rate, material properties).
Define the output parameters of the simulation (e.g., milling time, material removal, tool path).
Day 3-4: Simulation Core Development

Develop the core simulation algorithm:
Implement the basic simulation algorithm using Python.
Focus on visualizing the milling process and predicting the outcome.
Use NumPy and SciPy libraries for numerical computations.
Implement basic simulation features:
Tool movement: Implement the movement of the tool along the tool path.
Material removal: Implement the removal of material as the tool moves along the tool path.
Basic visualization: Implement a basic visualization of the milling process using Matplotlib or Plotly.
Matplotlib

What: Matplotlib is a popular Python plotting library for creating 2D and 3D plots.
Why: Matplotlib is a great choice for scientific computing and data visualization.
Create a simple plot.

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

# Data for plotting
t = np.arange(0.0, 2.0, 0.01)
s = 1 + np.sin(2 * np.pi * t)

fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.plot(t, s)

ax.set(xlabel='time (s)', ylabel='voltage (mV)',
       title='About as simple as it gets, folks')
ax.grid()

fig.savefig("test.png")
plt.show()
Plotly

What: Plotly is an interactive visualization library for Python, R, and MATLAB.
Why: Plotly is great for creating interactive, web-based visualizations.
Examples:
2D plots: Line plots, Scatter plots
import plotly.express as px

df = px.data.gapminder().query("country=='Canada'")
fig = px.line(df, x="year", y="lifeExp", title='Life expectancy in Canada')
fig.show()

3D plots: Surface plots, Mesh plots
Resources:
Plotly documentation
Plotly tutorials
Simulation Module Architecture

The simulation module will consist of the following key components:

Input Parser: Responsible for parsing and validating user input parameters.
Simulation Engine: The core component that performs the simulation calculations.
Material Model: A component that provides material properties and behavior.
Tool Model: A component that provides tool properties and behavior.
Geometry Engine: A component that handles geometric calculations and transformations.
Output Generator: Responsible for generating output parameters and visualizations.
Component Interactions

The components will interact as follows:

The Input Parser receives user input and passes it to the Simulation Engine.
The Simulation Engine uses the Material Model and Tool Model to perform simulation calculations.
The Simulation Engine uses the Geometry Engine to perform geometric calculations and transformations.
The Simulation Engine passes the simulation results to the Output Generator.
The Output Generator generates output parameters and visualizations.
Simulation Module Functionality

The simulation module will provide the following functionality:

Simulation: Performs a 3D simulation of the milling process.
Material Removal Calculation: Calculates the material removal rate and volume.
Tool Path Generation: Generates a 3D tool path for the milling process.
Milling Time Estimation: Estimates the milling time required for the process.
Visualization: Generates 3D visualizations of the simulation results.
Input Parameters

The simulation module will require the following input parameters:

Tool Diameter: The diameter of the milling tool.
Feed Rate: The feed rate of the milling tool.
Material Properties: The material properties, such as density, hardness, and thermal conductivity.
Workpiece Geometry: The 3D geometry of the workpiece.
Milling Parameters: The milling parameters, such as the spindle speed and depth of cut.
 
Output Parameters

The simulation module will generate the following output parameters:

Milling Time: The estimated milling time required for the process.
Material Removal: The calculated material removal rate and volume.
Tool Path: The generated 3D tool path for the milling process.
Visualization: 3D visualizations of the simulation results, including the workpiece and tool path.
This design document outlines the overall architecture and functionality of the simulation module.
The input and output parameters are defined, and the component interactions are described. This will provide a solid foundation for implementing the simulation module using Matplotlib

 
 
 
 





























